## URI Hurricane Boundary Layer Model

The University of Rhode Island Hurricane Boundary Layer Model (URI-HBL) is a three-dimensional wind model designed to simulate the wind in the boundary layer in response to a prescribed upper vortex in the gradient balance and motion force. The secondary circulation in the HBL model (radial and vertical wind) is generated by surface friction. The HBL model was previously applied to study both the idealized and real-case storms, and its surface wind field was validated against observations for Hurricane Irma (2017) and Hurricane Florence (2018).  The governing equations for the mean wind in the Cartesian coordinates are given as follows:


$$
\frac{\partial u}{\partial t} + u\frac{\partial u}{\partial x} + v\frac{\partial u}{\partial y} + w\frac{\partial u}{\partial z} - fv = -\frac{1}{\rho_o}\frac{\partial P}{\partial x} + \frac{\partial}{\partial z}\left(K_z \frac{\partial u}{\partial z}\right)
$$

$$
\frac{\partial v}{\partial t} + u\frac{\partial v}{\partial x} + v\frac{\partial v}{\partial y} + w\frac{\partial v}{\partial z} + fu = -\frac{1}{\rho_o}\frac{\partial P}{\partial y} + \frac{\partial}{\partial z}\left(K_z \frac{\partial v}{\partial z}\right)
$$

$$
\frac{\partial u}{\partial x} + \frac{\partial v}{\partial y} + \frac{\partial w}{\partial z} = 0
$$



Where u, v, and w are wind components in x, y and z directions, respectively. $f$ represents the Coriolis frequency; $P$ represents the pressure, and $\rho_o$ is the density the density kept constant.The vertical diffusion in the HBL model is parametrized based on Louis et al., (1982) PBL parametrization scheme. The neutral version of the Louis scheme is applied in this study.  



\begin{equation}
K_z = l^2 \cdot S \cdot f(Ri)
\end{equation}

where l represents the mixing length, S represents the magnitude of the vertical wind shear, and Ri is the gradient Richardson number. The wind in the HBL model is shear driven and parametrized as 

\begin{equation}
S^2= \left(\frac{\partial u}{\partial z}\right)^2 + \left(\frac{\partial v}{\partial z}\right)^2
\end{equation}


Mixing length l is parametrized using Blackadar (1962) scheme. 

\begin{equation}
\frac{1}{l} = \frac{1}{\kappa z} + \frac{1}{l_{\infty}}
\end{equation}

where κ is Von Karman’s constant (κ = 0.4) and l_∞ is the asymptotic mixing length. Following the previous studies by Kepert (2011), Gao & Ginis (2014),Gao & Ginis (2016) in this paper, the asymptotic mixing length is set as, l_∞ = 80 m. We use a moving coordinate system, as was done in previous studies by Kepert and Wang, (2001) & Gao and Ginis (2018), in which the mesh moves with the center position of the storm, keeping it stationary relative to the mesh. The HBL model uses a rectilinear grid system with horizontal and vertical spacing of 1km and 30m; respectively. The model grid consists of 1800 x 1800 grid points in zonal and meridional direction. The vertical extent of the grid is 3km. The timestep in the model is set as 1 second.

## Required Libraries for the HBL Model


The HBL model has been successfully installed on the High Performance Computing System of the Renaissance Computing Institute (RENCI). To compile the code, you will need to load the following modules:

1. **Intel Threading Building Blocks (TBB)** - Version 2021.5.1
2. **Compiler Runtime (compiler-rt)** - Version 2022.0.2
3. **Environment for Intel C++ Compiler (env_icc)** - Any version
4. **OpenCL FPGA (oclfpga)** - Version 2022.0.2
5. **Intel Compiler (compiler)** - Version 2022.0.2
6. **MPI Library (mpi)** - Version 2021.5.1
7. **Intel C++ Compiler (icc)** - Version 2022.0.2
8. **Hierarchical Data Format 5 (HDF5)** - Version 1.12.1-intel
9. **Network Common Data Form C (netcdf-c)** - Version 4.8.1-intel
10. **Network Common Data Form Fortran (netcdf-fortran)** - Version 4.5.4-intel
11. **MVAPICH2** - Version 2.3.7-intel
12. **NetCDF Operators (nco)** - Version 5.0.7-intel


### Required Libraries for HBL Model on URI Andromeda Cluster

To compile the HBL model on the URI Andromeda Cluster, ensure the following modules are loaded:

1. **GCCcore/8.3.0**
2. **zlib/.1.2.11-GCCcore-8.3.0**
3. **binutils/.2.32-GCCcore-8.3.0**
4. **iccifort/2019.5.281**
5. **impi/2018.5.288-iccifort-2019.5.281**
6. **iimpi/2019b**
7. **imkl/2019.5.281-iimpi-2019b**
8. **intel/2019b**
9. **Szip/.2.1.1-GCCcore-8.3.0**
10. **HDF5/1.10.5-iimpi-2019b**
11. **cURL/.7.66.0-GCCcore-8.3.0**
12. **netCDF/4.7.1-iimpi-2019b**
13. **netCDF-C++4/4.3.1-iimpi-2019b**
14. **netCDF-Fortran/4.5.2-iimpi-2019b**
15. **libevent/2.1.11-GCCcore-8.3.0**
16. **MVAPICH2/2.3.3-intel-2019b**

Load these modules before attempting to compile and run the HBL model to ensure compatibility and optimal performance.



```python

```
